Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss
about
bitwise ones compliment operator
So the bitwise ones compliment operator  is a unary
operator and it is denoted using a tilt
And what it does is inversion. that is it will invert
the binary bits
See if the bit is 1 it will convert it
into 0
And if the bit is 0 it will convert it into 1
For example let us find the bit wise ones complement
of decimal 4. First of all let us write the
binary representation of decimal 4. It is 00000100 What will be its
bit wise ones complement to obtain that we will take each
bit and invert it so take first
bit it is 0 so it will become 1 Next
take 0 invert it and we will get 1 again
Next 1 it will become 0 and next is 0 it
will become 1 and similarly all the remaining zeros will
become 1 and we got 11111011 which corresponds to the
decimal -5
So the bit wise ones complement of 4 is -5
Now let us see a sample programme which prints the
bit wise ones complement of 4
So we have the main function and we are declaring
the integer var and initialising it with 4
Now we print value = %d ~var
That is bit wise ones complement of var
So we will get output value equal to -5
and finally the programme return zero
Now how is compliment 4 equal to -5? To
understand that let us understand how -5 is represented
in the memory
The number 5 is represented like this. 00000101 and negative numbers
will be stored in the memory using two's compliment form
And how do we find two's compliment form of a
number? First find the ones complement of the number and
then add one to it
So to find two's complement of -5 find ones
complement of 5 and then add 1
So in ones compliment we just invert each bit So
1 become 0, 0 becomes 1, 1 become 0,0 becomes 1
and similarly all the zeros becomes 1 and now we
need to add one to it
So we get 0+1 = 1 and
then 101111 Now if we closely look this representation of
-5 it is a same as complement of 4
Hence the value of compliment 4 is equal to -5
Now let us see
Another example We have -6 for six the
8 bit binary representation is 000001 Now what is its
complement Just toggle the bits we get
0 to 1, 1 to 0, 1 to 0, 0 to 1,0 to 1, 0 to 1, 0 to 1 and again 0 to 1
So we got 11111001 Now if you see this is
equivalent to 8 bit binary representation to -7
Now take to the corresponding binary 00000010 and the
compliment is 0 becomes 1, 1 become 0, 0 becomes 1 and similarly
we get all remaining bits as 1
So we got 11111101 which is equivalent to -3
So if you observe the previous results the compliment of
six is equal to -7 which is -(6+1)
and the compliment of 2 is equal to
-3 which is -(2+1)
So we can say in general the bit wise ones
complement of N is equal to -(N+1)
So that's all and thank you for watching this video